So we added a loading spinner that's nice and certainly helpful to our users, but what if things go
wrong?
If things go wrong, for example, when adding a product, then currently we're not doing anything.
Now, here in this application, there is little that could go wrong.
To be honest, I have a good Internet connection here.
Firebase is a stable service.
Errors are unlikely, but of course, reality errors will happen to your users.
Lose the Internet connection.
There is an error on the server or invalid data is sent somehow.
And here I can simulate an error by removing Dargis at the end.
Firebase will not like this and will actually throw an error.
Now let me demonstrate this by now.
Go to manage products and I try to add a new product, a book for twelve ninety nine.
This is an awesome.
Book, if I now try to add this with my.
Dummy image here, and I would say if we see a spinner and now the spinner will not go away simply because
if we go back, we see that there is an error, there is an error thrown by Firebase or returned by
Firebase, and that then is ultimately caught by the DP package we're using and thrown as an error in
our app.
And the error we're getting here in the end is giving us an error message, which is quite helpful,
which is actually nice and would help us fix that error.
Since this, of course, is an error I introduced as a developer.
We see IDs of type format exception in darts.
There are different exception based clauses which are built into DART, which describe errors that can
happen.
And here we're having such an error.
So this request here, isn't he?
And now throwing an error and it's bubbling up and becomes a real error in our app, which is frio and
here in the DBA console and crashes our app because we're not handling that error.
We should handle such errors not only because we then awide the app crashing, but also because this
of course, is not a great user experience showing that Spiner and not telling the user anything that's
not that great.
How can you handle errors?
Well, we used then here on our future to define the function to code that should run Windows future
succeeds.
Now, similarly, you can also define a method that should run when that fails and you can simply add
after then here you can add it after then because then itself returns a new future and dhafer whatever
I call after that.
So with a dot on the result of then is effectively called on the future returned by then.
Right.
So some calling this on that future object then returns.
I could also call catch error here in front of them and then I would also had errors thrown by this
post method, which is the method that yields this error here in the end.
But if I call catch error here before I have my then block, then the logic in this then block will
also execute once my logic and catch error is done.
I don't want that.
Instead, by adding catch error here, I can now define a function which will be called whenever an
error is thrown, either here or here.
And if an error is thrown here while setting the post request, the then block will be skipped and we
immediately reach this function here in catch error.
So here in catch error, you do indeed define a function which receives the error data, the error object
which was frozen, which describes the error, which here in this case, as I mentioned, is an object
based on the built in format except in class, and it contains the error message, which is automatically
printed here.
And we can now interact with that error.
For example, with print error here, I can also print that error message.
And now here we could do all kinds of things with that error that we want to do.
The core thing is that now our app will not crash anymore because with this we're already handling direr.
So we're telling Dart, it's fine, I got you covered.
I'm doing something on that error.
And that's already an improvement because the app does not crash technically anymore.
Again, as I mentioned, the code in here in the then block will be skipped if the error is thrown instead
of our postma from there, which is the case for this error.
I added here, and therefore we make it straight to catch error.
Now, of course, here we could do all kinds of error handling.
For example, also send this to our custom analytic server to store this error message there and get
notified about that error in one of our apps or just log it here, which isn't too useful because the
user will not see that.
So what we might want to do here is even not use catch error here at all or simply use the full keyword,
which is built into DART to throw that error we're getting here again.
So Frode takes an error object and we're getting an error object here and it will now create a new error.
So we're handling the error here.
And now I'm creating a new one.
I'm only doing this because I have catch error here and I want to be able to add a never to catch error
clause in another place.
And that I replace is the added product screen.
That's, of course, the screen where we sent that request right here.
We call ad product dear.
We handle the success case.
And dare we now have the problem that we have no success case, but that we have an error.
So what we can do here is we can add catch error here as well.
And now it is will be reached because I'm throwing my error here again.
Alternatively, if we would leave out catch error here altogether, we would also reach catch error
here.
So catch error is reached if there is an error, but only the first catch error in line will execute
then and that will then handle the error.
So here we now also get that error object and here we can also do with what we want.
Here, of course, the great thing is we're now in the widget, so here we can now do something which
the user sees to inform the user about the error.
So here we could send or show a dialogue with show dialog and show dialogue takes a context.
And then we can use the context property, which is available everywhere in your state object when your
state class.
And we're in the state clause here, of course.
And besides, the contextual dialogue also takes a builder which is used to build this dialogue.
It takes a function which gets its own context generated by flutter.
And then here we typically return an alert dialog which allows us to configure such dialog box, which
is presented to the user in that dialog box.
Here, I'll set a title.
An error occurred.
Sounds like a fitting title, which should be a text widget, though, not just plain text.
And besides the title, we also want to have a content here and there, I'll have another text widget
where you say something.
Went wrong, though, if we wanted to, instead of having our generic text here, we could also simply
use the error here.
Error is an object which will have a message inside of it, and it's configured all exception.
Classes in DART are configured to have a huge string method.
That's actually a method which every object in DARD has.
So every custom object has to string as well, because Dart basically gives you this object base class
on which every class in DART invisibly depends.
So to string is available on every value in dart, but to string on error objects is specifically configured
to simply print a readable error message.
And that's why here in our error log, for example, you see this nice message that's coming from two
string being called on the error, and it then gives us the error message, which in this case Firebase
gave us.
Now we could print this, but often these error messages are really technical or you don't even want
to show them to your users because they might contain confidential information.
So here I'll go with something went wrong for the moment.
Later in the authentication section, we'll see more fine grained error handling in action.
With that, I'm building that dialogue now.
I also want to add an action to close it.
For that, I add a flat button here where the child's a text, which is where I say OK, and upon pressing
I just want to close the dialogue and we can close a dialogue simply by calling Navigator of Context
Pop, as you learned.
So we close overlays of any kind and dialogues are such overlays with pop.
And just like removing the current screen of the stack, this removes the current overlay which is on
that same stack, so to say.
And here we can actually use the context we're getting here.
So if that I'm closing that I was showing my dialogue when I get an error.
The missing thing, though, is that I actually do want to remove the loading spinner and maybe also
close to page if we are done, no matter if we got an error or not, because even with an error, we're
done loading.
And I want to give control back to the user.
I just want to let the user know about that error now that let the user know part is finished here.
We now also want to ensure that we reach then.
And the good thing is that's what I mentioned earlier already catch error catches the error, but then
you see catch error actually returns a new future.
So then after a catch error, we'll also execute because we're calling this on a future which is automatically
created by catch error.
And therefore here we're actually fine here.
We actually will trigger this code in there automatically because since then comes after catch error.
It will be triggered once that error is handled.
I just want to wait until the user made his choice.
And right now we would immediately pop and actually change that state here.
Instead, I want to wait until the user answered the dialog.
And the good thing is that the dialog also returns a future out of the box.
That's how Flattr configure.
So here we can actually return the result of show dialog, which is just that future and that future
will be resolved with the value we chose here for popping the dialog.
Right.
That's also something we did earlier in the course.
So only as soon as user click the button and this is Pop, this future will be resolved.
Since I returned a future here in this function that will be the future return by catch error and therefore
it is then block will only execute once this dialogue was closed to once this button was pressed and
we popped the dialog.
So with that, we now have an error handling logic in place which should allow us to successfully handle
that error.
So now try this again with some dummy data here, maybe.
This is some test.
And I add my immature.
Now you see that spinner.
Now we get that overlay, that dialogue, but if I press OK, we actually close that page still and
here we only see that shorter output instead of that crashing error message because our app now didn't
crash.
And that output here is only printed because I'm printing the error here and that princi error message,
which happens to be that.
So this is how that works and how we can handle errors in DART.
A very useful tool, of course, because that helps us ensure that we provide a pleasant user experience.
And with that back end product, start Oread Dot Jason here, because of course, here I want to make
sure that we have a successful request again now in all section.
By the way, I will also show you a different way or a way of throwing your own custom exceptions in
case you don't have a technical error, in case Firebase doesn't report back and error with error status
code and you are still not happy with the result in your section.
I'll have a good example for that.
So there are all the come back to this for now.
We have all the error handling in place that we need.